---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-04-04T22:23:40.049Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-04T22:23:04.966Z'
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-04-b238116c-e0d3-4038-a82d-f806356ff261.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: b238116c-e0d3-4038-a82d-f806356ff261/index.html
_type: Article

---
The Orbot SprayBorg low-moisture system has been engineered to clean 
any type of carpet, in any situation and also leave it as dry as 
possible so it is ready to use immediately.

Have you ever walked into an airport, hotel hallway or room, and 
smelled a dingy humid scent because the carpet had been recently cleaned
and over-wet? Did you see a number of fans blowing on the floor? Was 
the carpet truly clean or was it still gray and dull in appearance? Are 
these signs of a healthy, clean, and safe environment?

The HOS system was designed in mind to support a healthy indoor 
environment. Carpets will simply be clean, vibrant in color, and dry 
within minutes. The system will eliminate the most common problems 
caused by other cleaning methods that lead to mold growth, mildew, 
volatile organic compounds (VOC), insufficient drying times, recurring 
stains, and safety hazards.

HOS' unique low-moisture system uses 10 times less the amount of 
water opposed to other water extraction methods. Therefore, over-wet 
carpets will never be an issue. The problems associated with over-wet 
carpets are intensified in a heavily used setting. Over-wet carpets 
require longer drying times. This can cause large sections of a building
to be blocked off for extended periods of time. Especially in a school,
hospital, or commercial building this can lead to serious safety 
issues. People walking from a wet or damp carpet directly onto a 
hard-surface floor can slip or fall. Also, wet carpets that are walked 
on will almost always resoil more quickly. This is because the chemicals
and moisture act as a magnet, pulling dirt and debris into the carpet 
fibers.

Of much greater concern, the long drying time increases the 
likelihood that mold and mildew will develop, seriously jeopardizing 
indoor air quality and potentially harming occupant health. With longer 
drying times, and if traditional carpet cleaning chemicals are used, 
there is a greater possibility that gases and volatile organic compounds
will be released into the air. This can cause allergic reactions and 
respiratory problems, especially for young children.

Simply put, what falls to the floor like common dust, pollutants and 
many things that we breathe, tends to stay on the floor until it is 
cleaned. Properly maintaining the cleanliness of the floors by using the
HOS low-moisture system will lead to improved air quality and a 
healthier indoor environment that can be seen, smelt, and felt to 
believe.